Improve the README (#225)
mpickering/hie-bios: README.md

    - [Stack](#stack)
      - [Debugging a `stack` cradle](#debugging-a-stack-cradle)
      - [Ignoring directories](#ignoring-directories)
      - [Internal Libraries](#internal-libraries)
    - [Cabal](#cabal)
      - [Debugging a `cabal` cradle](#debugging-a-cabal-cradle)
      - [Ignoring directories](#ignoring-directories-1)
    - [Bios](#bios)
    - [Direct](#direct)
      - [Debugging a `direct` cradle](#debugging-a-direct-cradle)
    - [None](#none)
  - [Multi-Cradle](#multi-cradle)
  - [Cradle Dependencies](#cradle-dependencies)
  - [Configuration specification](#configuration-specification)
  - [Testing your configuration](#testing-your-configuration)
  - [Implicit Configuration](#implicit-configuration)
    - [Priority](#priority)
    - [`cabal-install`](#cabal-install)
    - [`stack`](#stack-1)
    - [`bios`](#bios-1)
  - [Supporting Bazel and Obelisk](#supporting-bazel-and-obelisk)

`hie-bios` is the way to specify how
[`haskell-language-server`](https://github.com/haskell/haskell-language-server)
and [`ghcide`](https://github.com/digital-asset/ghcide) set up a GHC API session.

Given a Haskell project that is managed by Stack, Cabal, or other package tools,

> `haskell-language-server` needs to know the full set of flags to pass to GHC in
> order to build the project. `hie-bios` satisfies this need.

Reviewer: Just to emphasise that the build tools need to do more than just return the flags, but also properly set up the environment by building deps etc
```suggestion
`haskell-language-server` needs to know the full set of flags to pass to GHC in
order to build the project. These flags might contain some compilations options
like `-O2`, but a lot of the time they are package dependencies such as
`-package-id directory-1.3.6.0`, which also need to be built beforehand.
`hie-bios` satisfies both these needs.
```

## Explicit Configuration

The user can place a `hie.yaml` file in the root of the workspace which
describes how to setup the environment. There are several supported ways to setup the environment.

### Stack

> To explicitly state that you want to use `stack` then the basic configuration file would look like:

Author: ```suggestion
To explicitly state that you want to use `stack` then the basic configuration `hie.yaml` would look like:
```

If your project is more complicated, you need to specify which [component](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/build_command/#components) you want to load. A component is roughly speaking a library/executable/test-suite or benchmark in `stack`. You can view the components/targets of a stack project by executing the command:
``` sh
$ stack ide targets
```

For `hie-bios`, this would output the following:

``` sh
$ stack ide targets
hie-bios:lib
hie-bios:exe:hie-bios
hie-bios:test:bios-tests
hie-bios:test:parser-tests
```

Since we have two test-suites, one executable and a library. For an explanation of the target syntax, we refer to the documentation of the [target syntax](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/build_command/#target-syntax).

To tell `hie-bios` which component it should load, the following `hie.yaml` can be used:

```yaml
cradle:
  stack:
    component: "<component name>"
```

where `<component name>` is the name of component/target you want to be able to load.

> While the component is optional, this is recommended to make sure the correct component is loaded.

Author: Add a motivating example, why do we usually need the next section

#### Ignoring directories

You can combine the [multi-cradle](#multi-cradle) with a [none-cradle](#none-cradle) to ignore all source files in a certain directory. The syntax is a bit verbose:

```yaml
cradle:
  multi:
    - path: "./tests/projects"
      config:
        cradle:
          none:
    - path: "./"
      config:
        cradle:
          stack:
            - path: "./src"
              component: "hie-bios:lib"
            - path: "./exe"
              component: "hie-bios:exe:hie-bios"
            - path: "./tests/BiosTests.hs"
              component: "hie-bios:test:hie-bios"
            - path: "./tests/ParserTests.hs"
              component: "hie-bios:test:parser-tests"
```

This way, we specify that we do not want to load any files in our test project directories.

#### Internal Libraries

Internal libraries are not well supported in `stack`. Since the syntax [`stack repl <internal library name>`](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/stack/issues/4564) doesn't work, `hie-bios` will generally not work with internal libraries using `stack`.

### Cabal

> To use `cabal`, the basic explicit configuration looks similar.

Author: ```suggestion
To use `cabal`, the basic explicit configuration looks similar to `stack`:
```

```yaml
cradle:
  cabal:
```

The implication of this configuration is a bit different, though. Given a source file to load, we will use `cabal repl <filename>` to find the component of the given filepath.

> Due to an unfortunate [bug](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/6622), this fails on some files with `cabal` versions older than `3.4`.

Author: ```suggestion
This configuration should work in (almost) every standard project setup, since `cabal` finds the component associated to a given source file.
However, due to an unfortunate [bug](https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/6622), this fails on some files if the `cabal` version is older than `3.4`. 
```

So, to make your project loadable by older `cabal` versions, you can specify a component to load.
A [component](https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/stable/nix-local-build.html?highlight=component#cabal-v2-build) is roughly speaking a library, executable, test-suite or benchmark in `cabal`.
The `hie.yaml` file looks like this:

```yaml
cradle:
  cabal:
    component: <component name>
```

This tells `hie-bios` that whichever source file it tries to load, it should handle it as if it belongs to `<component name>`.

As an example, to load the library of `hie-bios`, the following `hie.yaml` can be used:

```yaml
cradle:
  cabal:
    component: "lib:hie-bios"
```

> The component syntax `"lib:hie-bios"` refers to the library of the package `hie-bios`. For a complete reference of the component syntax, we refer to the [documentation](https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/stable/nix-local-build.html?highlight=component#cabal-v2-build).

Author: This should make it why the given configuration isnt enough usually

#### Debugging a `cabal` cradle

If you find that `hie-bios` can't load a certain component or file, you may run `cabal repl <filename>` and `stack repl <component name>` to see if `cabal` succeeds building the components. Chances are that there is a problem and if you fix that, `hie-bios` will succeed to load the project. Otherwise, please open an [issue](https://github.com/mpickering/hie-bios/issues/new).

#### Ignoring directories

You can combine the [multi-cradle](#multi-cradle) with a [none-cradle](#none-cradle) to ignore all source files in a certain directory. The syntax is a bit verbose:

```yaml
cradle:
  multi:
    - path: "./tests/projects"
      config:
        cradle:
          none:
    - path: "./"
      config:
        cradle:
          cabal:
            - path: "./src"
              component: "lib:hie-bios"
            - path: "./exe"
              component: "exe:hie-bios"
            - path: "./tests/BiosTests.hs"
              component: "test:hie-bios"
            - path: "./tests/ParserTests.hs"
              component: "test:parser-tests"
```

This way, we specify that we do not want to load any files in our test project directories.

> ### Bios

Author: Section needs to be improved

session. This is how GHC's build system is able to support `hie-bios`.

A good guiding specification for this file is that the following command
should work for any file in your project.

``` sh
$ ghci $(./.hie-bios /path/to/foo.hs | tr '\n' ' ') /path/to/foo.hs
```

The configuration looks like:

```yaml
cradle:
  bios:
    program: ".hie-bios"
```
```yaml
cradle:
  bios:
    shell: "build-tool flags $HIE_BIOS_ARG"
```

### Direct

The `direct` cradle allows you to specify exactly the GHC options that should be used to load
a project. This is good for debugging but not a very good approach in general as the set of options
will quickly get out of sync with a cabal file.

```yaml
cradle:
  direct:
    arguments: [arg1, arg2]
```

#### Debugging a `direct` cradle

The arguments of a `direct` cradle will be passed almost directly to `ghc`. If the command `ghc <cradle arguments>` succeeds, then `hie-bios` can load the project.

### None

The `none` cradle says that the IDE shouldn't even try to load the project. It
is most useful when combined with the [multi-cradle](#multi-cradle) which is specified in the next section.

```yaml
cradle:
  none:
```

> ## Multi-Cradle

Author: Maybe a "how to debug" section is useful here, too.

The workspace root is the first folder containing a `cabal.project` file.

The arguments are collected by running `cabal v2-repl <filename>`.

If `cabal v2-repl <filename>` fails, then the user needs to configure the correct
target to use by writing a `hie.yaml` file.

### `stack`

The workspace root is the first folder containing a `stack.yaml` file.

The arguments are collected by executing `stack repl`. If it fails, then the user needs to configure the correct
target to use by writing a `hie.yaml` file.

### `bios`

The most general form is the `bios` mode which allows a user to specify themselves
which flags to provide.

The program will receive the file to return options for as its first argument.

The process must consult the `HIE_BIOS_OUTPUT` environment variable and write a

> list of options to this file separated by newlines. Once the process finishes

Reviewer 2: It is implicit and maybe obvious (with `this file`), but i would make clear that the value of `HIE_BIOS_OUTPUT` is the file path where you have to write the flags.

Author: I agree, we should make this clear!
Also, there is another undocumented pre-condition: all targets of the component must be listed by the process.
I will extend the documentation for the bios cradle.
